'\" t
.TH srcpd 8 "November 26, 2007"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
srcpd \- SRCP speaking daemon
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B srcpd
[ options ] 
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is not a complete manual. You have to consult the project
home page at http://srcpd.sourceforge.net for full documentation!

.B srcpd
is a UNIX daemon speaking the simple railroad command protocol
(SRCP).

Upon start up it reads in the system wide configuration file named
\fBsrcpd.conf\fP. Contents and Stucture of this XML-file is explained
in detail in the \fBsrcpd.conf (5)\fP man page. The SRCP specification
is published on http://srcpd.sourceforge.net/srcp.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-h
prints some useful help about command line options and exit
.TP
.BI \-v
print program version, SRCP Level and exit
.TP
.BI \-f\ <filename>
use the specified filename as the configuration file. The default
value will be defined at compile time and can be displayed using the
-h parameter.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.SS Getting started
The \fBsrcpd\fP system service (daemon) is compliant to the Filesystem
Hierarchy Standard (FHS, http://www.pathname.com/fhs/). For more
information and special options about daemon usage please refer to to
your system documentation. The following instructions are on a general
level of information.

Please first start assembling a configuration file (\fIsrcpd.conf\fP)
fitting exactly your needs to connect to your model railway controller
interface. Save this file to the directory for host specific system
configuration (\fI/etc\fP). The default configuration file delivered
with this software must be replaced by the new one.

As soon as the adapted configuration file is at the right place, the
daemon can be started using this command:

.RS
.nf
/etc/init.d/srcpd start
.fi
.RE

If the \fBsrcpd\fP is already running, it first must be stoped to get
it aware of the new setup. Stoping the daemon is executed in analogy to
the start command:

.RS
.nf
/etc/init.d/srcpd stop
.fi
.RE

Under certain conditions it is also possible to get the daemon re-read
its configuration file without stopping it. With respect to hardware
access rules unter UNIXlike systems, the group and/or user rights must
be properly set in \fIsrcpd.conf\fP to let the daemon access the
appropriate hardware resouces at any time.

Common model railway interfaces will require access rights for serial
lines (RS232, USB), which can be achieved using the proper group rights
(e.g. »dialout«). The »ddl-s88« module uses a special system function
(ioperm) which needs allways root rights to perform successfully.

To let srcpd re-read its confuguration file, assumed the setup
mentioned before is correct, the following command can be used:

.RS
.nf
/etc/init.d/srcpd reload
.fi
.RE

The log file \fI/var/log/messages\fP of the syslog daemon can be used
to monitor occuring errors on daemon start or during current operation.
With root rights the upcomming messages can be continously watched in a
separate terminal:

.RS
.nf
tail -f /var/log/messages
.fi
.RE

The verbosity of these messages can be adjusted using the configuration
file \fIsrcpd.conf\fP. For more information refer to the adequate man
page.
.\"
.\"
.SS Lenz USB Interfaces
.PP
It is very important that you have kernel modul ftdi_sio available.
Due to concept of Lenz, there you get different return values after start.
.TP
.BI 0
everything is OK
.TP
.BI -1
Central Unit not found. Unable to read version of central unit.
.TP
.BI -2
Central Unit not found. Unable to read version of central unit.
.TP
.BI -3
Interface not found. Unable to read version of interface.
This can also happen, if no central unit is connected to interface.
.TP
.BI -4
device not found
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
srcpd.conf (5)
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
Possibly there are some bugs. Please report them to the project
developer mailing list.
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
This man page was written by
Matthias Trute (mtrute@users.sourceforge.net),
Frank Schimschke (schmischi@users.sourceforge.net) and
Guido Scholz (gscholz@users.sourceforge.net).
.\"
.\"
.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License, Version 2
